[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO, ET,
related intelligence.
Today we're discussing
a secret operation
to explore the far
side of the moon.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: So what is
Operation Sapphire Selene?
>>DOTY: Operation Sapphire
Selene was a classified
operation that started
back in the 60s.
>>DOTY: OK.
>>DOTY: The military
thought that it
would be advantageous to them
to put a base on the moon
to fight any future wars.
And that's what the
initial operation was.
In the early 70s we found a
craft that had crashed or landed
in the desert of
west of Las Vegas.
So we captured that craft,
took it to our advanced,
back in those days, it
was advanced research
and development center,
which was at Groom Lake.
And we tried to figure out
exactly how that craft worked
and whether we
could either reverse
engineer it or train pilots,
military pilots to fly it.
Now, the technology of
this particular craft,
which they called--
they codenamed Polyzena, and was
that it was just too complicated
to reverse engineer.
Our technology hadn't
advanced enough--
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: --in the
mid 70s to do that.
And right around
this time frame,
we acquired another spacecraft
that had actually we found--
we didn't find, but
another friendly country
found in the Middle East.
We're going to say Saudi Arabia.
And we went and picked that
thing up and brought it back.
And now that was called Remus.
They named them, I think, after
mythology, Greek mythology.
>>EMERY: What was the
objective of that?
>>DOTY: The objective
was to reverse
engineer these crafts
or train military pilots
to operate these crafts,
to fly to the moon.
At the time, in the 70s, we
didn't have anything other than
the Apollo Program that could
launch a spacecraft from
the Earth and land on the moon.
But an extraterrestrial
craft we knew
could do this in, number
one, in a faster time
period or a quicker time
period, and probably
be more maneuverable in the
environment of the moon rather
than the Apollo spacecraft.
As we knew, the
Apollo spacecraft
was launched by a rocket, took
three days to get to the moon,
had to orbit the moon
and land, and then
take off in a
conventional manner.
Whereby if we utilize an
extraterrestrial craft
that we recovered and
reverse engineered
or train our pilots
to operate them,
it would be more functional.
The Polyzena craft was
entirely different technology
than the Remus craft.
So that meant it came from
two different extraterrestrial
civilizations.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: So what we had to do
was train pilots to fly them.
>>EMERY: Whose craft was
it in the first place?
>>DOTY: At the time, we didn't
know what alien craft it was.
There wasn't any
extraterrestrials
in the craft when they
found it, but we had
top scientists working on this.
Two, we couldn't
reverse engineer
because our technology
had advanced enough,
but we were able to train some
pilots to actually operate
these two crafts.
>>EMERY: And once
they did finally
train the pilots to operate
it, what did they do next?
>>DOTY: Well, it took a
long time, number one,
to understand the
technology inside the craft.
>>EMERY: What's a long time?
>>DOTY: I think several years.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: They worked on trying
to understand the flying
mechanisms of the craft, the
propulsion system of the craft.
So they had to experiment,
and they did it
over and over and
over again, trying
to put their hands in one
place, and then their foot
in another place.
And they did this for a long
period of time, monotonous
as one of the pilots
told me, very monotonous
because we didn't understand
anything about this craft.
But eventually, we were
able to actually lift
this craft off the ground.
Now, that was the
easy part of it.
The hard part was flying it, and
that took another long period
of time to be able to not
only lift it off the ground
and fly it, but maneuver it.
But over a period of
time, we figured it out.
And we trained several United
States Air Force pilots
in the operation of
the Polyzena First.
Once these pilots were trained.
In the operation
of Polyzena craft,
they transported to melanocyte,
which was west of Groom Laken.
And it was form of-- it
was like a launch pad.
I guess the easiest
way to explain it.
And they were able to launch
it into Earth's orbit.
They were able to take it
off the ground into the air.
But maneuvering it was
the hard part of it.
But they did this over and
over again, repetition.
And finally they
were able to orbit
the craft around the Earth.
>>EMERY: Was it hand controlled?
Like, you kept saying, they
had to place hands, or was
it mind controlled?
Telepathy?
Or what could you
tell us about that?
>>DOTY: There were no knobs,
buttons or switches inside.
All they had was on a
panel, hand imprints
where the extraterrestrials
would put their hands in.
>>EMERY: Five fingers?
>>DOTY: No, unfortunately,
there were only four fingers.
That's what they had to
overcome because we have five,
we have a thumb digit.
They didn't have a thumb digit.
Whatever extraterrestrial
race this was.
The only thing that was the
same between the Polyzena
craft and the Remus craft was
a hand print control system.
>>EMERY: So they both had this?
>>DOTY: They both had it.
But anyways, they were
able to figure it out.
And I'm not sure exactly
how because there's
a lot of stuff involved in
the operation of these crafts
are probably still classified.
But they were able
to fly these crafts,
they were able to lift the
Polyzena off the ground
into orbit, circle
the Earth once
and bring it back to
the same location.
They realized that what they
were doing, what this craft was
doing, had a memory of its own.
If they were to--
to take off, they put it in the
right direction, it flew itself.
They realized this.
And then they started
thinking, let's talk
about thinking of something
and seeing this craft does it.
Now, of course, we have probably
different thought patterns
than the extraterrestrials
that owned this craft,
but they studied this over
and over and over, repetition.
And they realized
that if they started
thinking about something,
this craft would do it.
So that's when they
realized this craft had
a mind of its own.
And one of the technicians,
not the pilots,
but one of the technicians
that assisted on this told me,
he said, this was a
dream, the Polyzena craft
was a dream to fly
because you just
had to think with your
hands inside of it.
Now, they managed to figure
out how to block the thumb,
because we have a thumb.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: But they figured
it out in some manner.
Now, the Remus craft was
a little bit different,
although it had the
same handprints.
They couldn't think
something because if they
kept trying to do that,
and it wouldn't work.
But they found these
containers under the floor,
the command floor of the
craft, these round balls.
They wanted to know how
they moved those balls.
They knew they
could move, but they
couldn't do it from the
station, the command station.
So they figured it
had to be somebody
else at another location
to move these balls.
But they didn't really
know what these balls were.
They were round
spheres and they were
about the size of a beach ball,
something similar to that.
They were silver in shape, but
they had these sockets inside
of them.
And the sockets would spin
when the craft was moving.
And then the whole
sphere would move.
So then they again,
repetition, repetition.
And then they figured out
there were foot pedals
that the extraterrestrials would
put their feet into and move
and then control the craft
almost like a yoke and rudder
on a regular aircraft.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And so now
they figured out
how to maneuver these things.
And they were done by these
balls that were under the floor.
So the Remus craft was the
hardest to get off the ground,
but they eventually were able
to get it off and fly it.
But they only flew it
around the test area.
They didn't try to take it up in
orbit, because there were little
concerned about the
interior of the craft
or the interior atmosphere
because they knew
that if they took it off the
ground and the atmosphere
inside the cockpit, so
to speak, wasn't right,
they'd kill the pilots.
How do you control
the inner atmosphere?
And that took them the longest
to find out on the Remus.
Now, on the Polyzena
craft, when it took off,
it automatically created a
positive atmosphere environment,
a positive pressure environment
inside the control area.
So the pilots didn't
have to wear helmets,
they didn't have to--
they automatically
were able to breathe.
It almost created an
atmosphere for them.
And they circled the Earth.
Coming back, flight surgeons
examined the pilots.
There weren't anything
wrong with them.
Checked their lung
functions and things
to make sure that they were
all right and flying there.
What the rationale behind
it is that this craft was
a living organism and
adjusted to whoever was in it.
And that's the way the
scientists kind of figured it
out.
There's one still alive, the Los
Alamos scientist, 90 years old.
He said anybody could
have got into that cockpit
and the environment
would have adjusted
for that particular
creature or person, human
or extraterrestrial.
Now, the Polyzena craft, which
was a little bit different,
they found some containers in
the side of the aircraft that
contained something.
And they didn't
know what it was.
And they were afraid
to try to open it up
because it appeared to
be some sort of a fluid.
And so they figured
if they opened this
up and leaked the fluid,
then they'd have a problem.
But there were long tubes
with the fluid in it.
And they thought, well,
maybe that's where
the extraterrestrials
would live or stay
or hibernate or something like
that during long space missions.
They realized that when there
were two pilots in the command
seats and they put their hands
in the indentations, these vats
with fluid in it, the fluid
start would start moving,
like boiling it.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And then there
were these small vents,
they didn't realize at
first, but these small vents
would spray out something.
This is what was
dangerous, they thought,
to the pilots because the pilots
didn't have any helmets on,
so they thought this stuff
might be hazardous to them.
But it wasn't.
It was a form of
something that came out
that filled the cockpit
with a pressure of something
that we never--
I don't think we
ever understood,
allowing these pilots to
stay in a positive pressure
environment or a
gravity, with gravity,
we call it-- they call
it positive pressure.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: When I ask them exactly
what they're talking about,
they're saying gravity.
>>EMERY: It seems
like it creates
its own atmosphere and its
own gravitational field.
>>DOTY: Exactly, and that's
exactly what happened.
And they figured that
out with the Remus.
>>EMERY: So how did
the decision to go
to the far side of the moon come
about with this new technology?
>>DOTY: Well, their mission in
the first place was to set up
bases on a dark side--
dark side of the moon,
because we could hide
and we could hide a force,
we could hide construction
on the far side of the moon,
because at that time period,
nobody else, no other
country on Earth
visited that side of the moon.
So we figured-- the military
or the Department of Defense
figured that was the best
place to hide a force.
And with these crafts,
that could fly us there,
we wouldn't have to worry about
any other type of Earth crafts
not making it to the
far side of the moon.
So that's the mission and
that's what they wanted to do.
>>EMERY: So what kind of
special forces were involved,
and what type of training
did they have to undergo?
>>DOTY: Well, the
Department of Defense
selected a unique
group of personnel
that had to be a certain type of
physical, structured, physical
fitness, a certain
height and weight.
And they selected these out
of the special forces units,
mostly at that time, the Army
Special Forces or the Army
Rangers.
I believe all but a select
few Air Force personnel
were selected.
The Air Force personnel
had to be technicians
that were capable of repairing
things, monitoring the craft.
They were being trained on
the Polyzena and the Remus.
So those would-- those type of
people would go plus pilots.
They couldn't just
take two pilots.
What happened if something
happened to those two pilots?
>>EMERY: Sure--
>>DOTY: So they had to
train a number of pilots.
And in another
problem they had was,
how, do you put a special
forces unit inside these crafts?
Where do they sit?
How do they transport them?
And they figured this all out
because once they did tests
at Nevada test site,
where they would launch
the crafts with these
soldiers inside,
they realized that the
pressure and the gravity
was the same as Earth.
So they didn't have to worry
about them flying up in the air
or being in a negative
pressure environment.
They were already in a
positive pressure environment.
They tried to put
seats inside of them,
but the seats, they didn't have
any way of attaching the seats.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: But then what
they decided on doing
was putting poles, so they would
push the pole like a pressure
pole to the top and
the bottom of the craft
and put the seat in that.
And they did that.
And each craft could
hold 30 soldiers.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: And so they were
able to train these.
They flew them over and over
and over again, in repetition.
And they were trained in
a special type of combat.
Number one, the moon only
have a sixth of the gravity--
>>EMERY: Gravity.
>>DOTY: So the normal weapon,
a gun, a handgun and M16 rifle
wouldn't work on the moon.
So they had to make
different types--
create different types
of weapon systems.
And one was a laser weapon.
Another one was a pressure
weapon, a pressure gun.
So they developed these
things, and then they
had to train the soldiers
with these things.
And another thing before
the mission could start,
we had a place, at least two
satellites in the moon's orbit,
and they were going to assist
in mapping and communications
and other things with
these two crafts.
Another problem we
had with the crafts
was installing our
communications device
in the craft.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>DOTY: Because how are we
going to communicate with Earth,
because we couldn't--
I don't think we could figure
out their communications device.
But smart people,
I don't know who,
but smart people figured
out how to put an antenna
and put our own type
of communications
device inside the craft.
>>EMERY: Were there
any significant events
on their journey to the moon,
and when did they take happen?
>>DOTY: President Reagan
had to give the approval,
and he did that
in April of 1981.
He said he was briefed on it.
He said, go for it.
>>EMERY: Wow.
Do they have any test runs?
>>DOTY: Yeah, they
figured they wanted
to run a test to make sure this
thing got to the moon all right
and come back.
And so they did.
The Polyzena took a test
run, was launched out
of a special launch area out
of Melon and Nevada test range.
And it went to the moon,
circle the moon once,
and then came back.
And that whole mission
only took them eight hours.
So they realized, after
they did that test,
that they could do it.
And the pilots who had over 100
hours in this craft by that time
were very confident
that they could fly it.
They knew enough about
the operation of it.
Now, remember, the one thing
that they haven't figured out
yet was the propulsion system.
But they knew that
certain controls operated
that propulsion system.
It didn't have any operating
nuts and bolts, so to speak,
but it was able
to fly this craft.
>>EMERY: So even if
they thought faster,
like, I want to go there
faster, it just had one speed,
you're telling me.
>>DOTY: Once they got into
them-- and this is Polyzena,
they could think
how to navigate.
Once they thought
about the moon, then
this thing flew to the moon.
And the propulsion system got
them there in eight hours.
You know, you got
to figure out--
>>EMERY: That's fast.
>>DOTY: Yeah.
If you figure out the distance,
220,000 miles from Earth
to the moon and how fast
if it took eight hours--
simple math can explain how fast
they had to go to get there.
Now, what the pilots
figured later--
I mean, talked about later
was there was something else
involved in this.
It wasn't necessarily
a propulsion system.
Something was happening in
front of the spacecraft.
It was like you were
looking at a hot desert
floor in the middle
of the Mojave Desert.
There were waves, heat
waves you would see.
>>EMERY: So the
occupants could see out
of this craft, obviously.
>>DOTY: They had a portal
from they could see out,
but everything was distorted
when that craft started going.
So they figured there
was something else that
was causing them to go that
fast or to move into space.
Once it left the Earth's
orbit, now it's in space.
And that's what
they figured it out.
Now, the Remus is something
different, though.
Now, the Remus is entirely
different technology.
When they got into Earth's
orbit and started taking off
towards the moon, everything
became distorted to the point
it was blacked out.
They couldn't see, so they
couldn't really navigate.
How can you navigate
when you can't
see what's in front of you?
It's almost like flying with
visual flight rules rather
than instruments.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: But it seemed to
know where it was going.
The two pilots who had hours
and hours of flight time
with the Remus, they
said it just seemed
to know where it was going.
It took a little longer to get
to the moon on a test flight,
but they got there and got back.
So now we're set for a
real mission to the moon.
>>EMERY: Rick, you mentioned
this craft can hold 30 soldiers.
So give us an idea, how
large was this craft?
And if they did go to the
dark side of the moon,
where do they go,
all the soldiers?
>>DOTY: OK.
The Polyzena was about
the size of a 737,
although round in shape, it
was 27 from top to bottom.
It was made of a structured
material on the outside.
>>EMERY: Metallic or?
>>DOTY: Metallic.
Yeah.
They found later a lot
of other different things
about the craft.
The Remus was a little
bit smaller than that,
but it still was
a saucer shaped.
One of the things the Remus had
that the Polyzena didn't have it
was about 20 feet
from top to bottom.
It was about the same
diameter, a little bit
shorter, a little bit smaller.
But it'd have-- had a bar in
the middle, a round bar that
moved around when the
craft was in operation,
whereas the Polyzena didn't
have one of those things.
So they think that was an
equilibrium type of thing
that kept the craft from--
that was what we thought,
our scientists thought.
So these things were able to
accommodate the 30 soldiers,
and we're talking 30
each 31, 30 other plus
supplies that they took along.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: Because they weren't
going to be there three days.
Now, here's the problem.
We don't know what's on
the dark side of the moon,
except, remember, we
launched satellites earlier.
And the satellites
were taking pictures.
These two satellites mapped
the dark side of the moon
and sent those pictures
back and gave them
to the crew that was going to be
on the Polyzena and the Remus.
And look, being able to
look at it and decide,
OK, we got we're
going to land here
and we're going to land here.
So that's how they determine
where they were going to land.
They were going to
land in flat areas
on the dark side of the moon
and they were going to be apart.
Then they're going to be at
least three kilometers away
from each other.
They didn't want to land
in the same location
just in case something happened
or they encountered something.
>>EMERY: Did they
find anything else
interesting in those photos?
>>DOTY: They found anomalies.
>>EMERY: Anomalies.
>>DOTY: Now, remember, our
satellite photography system
wasn't the greatest in
the world back then,
but they did see some anomalies.
So they-- the mission,
Polyzena was launched first.
They waited for that to
get into orbit on its way.
Then the Remus was
launched and they went.
And it took them about five
hours both to get there.
They circled, determined
where the place--
best place to land.
And here's where the
first problem developed
with the Polyzena,
was they were trying
to get it to land in
a certain location,
but it landed where
it wanted to land,
and it wasn't where
they wanted to land.
So they landed.
Some time later,
the Remus came in.
The Remus landed where
it wanted to land,
but now they were farther apart.
They were almost five
kilometers apart.
You're talking three
miles or so apart.
So they're not in close
proximity to each other.
They had ground communications.
>>EMERY: Did that alarm
them that this craft
is all of a sudden making
a conscious decision
not to land where
they wanted to land?
>>DOTY: Yes, they were
very, very concerned by it.
And then when they got on
the surface of the moon,
they had problems
opening the doors,
and they realized why, because
inside was a positive pressure.
And now they had
to turn that off
and they didn't
know how to do it.
So it took them some time
to figure it all out.
But I guess they did
because the doors opened,
the soldiers exited
the 30 and one.
And then Remus, of course,
was three miles away,
and they were trying
to communicate.
They finally did
communicate with him.
And Remus was having problems,
too, with a number of things.
They were landed in a crater.
So the Polyzena
troops couldn't see.
There was nothing obstructing
them on the moon, of course.
They couldn't see the
Remus because they
were below the ground level.
So when the soldiers got out and
spread out, started searching,
they found buildings,
structures, caves, towers,
which led them to believe
there was a civilization there.
So now the soldiers are
on heightened alert.
Now, we found structures.
Is there a civilization here?
Moon people?
There weren't quite
sure what to do.
The commander was
an Army Colonel,
and he was the
commander of both units.
But remember, there's
only one team here.
The other team is
three miles away,
and they're not sure what
they're encountering over there.
So this commander decided, you
know what we're going to do?
We're going to go to
do the other team,
team up, a strength in numbers,
typical military tactics.
So that's what they did.
And they met up and
they conversed, and then
they all moved together back
to where the buildings were.
Now, where the Remus
landed, there wasn't they
didn't find any buildings, they
didn't find any structures.
So when they moved back
to where the Polyzena was,
they started spreading
out and looking.
And they found these
caves, and they decided
to send teams into the caves.
The caves were enormous.
They went all over the place.
But remember, compasses
didn't work on the moon.
Any time you are trying
to navigate in a combat
environment, you want
compasses, you want to navigate,
you want to know
where you're going.
Nothing worked.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: And so they
decided they're
going to get lost down there.
So they decided not
to explore the caves.
They came back up.
They took a lot of
pictures of this area.
They didn't find any
extraterrestrials at first.
There wasn't anything there.
And it appeared
that these buildings
had been there for a long,
long, long, long time.
So this concerned them.
Now, was it in just this area
or all over the dark side?
Well, they know that
where the Remus landed,
three miles in a
different direction,
there wasn't any buildings.
They didn't find anything there.
What about farther to
the opposite direction?
So they did do some
recon that way,
and the only thing
they could find in
that other area were towers.
And there were strange
looking towers.
They didn't appear
to be man-made,
but they did have
something on top, which
was similar to an antenna.
But they were unlike
any other structure,
natural structure on the moon.
There wasn't like a rock
formation or anything else,
so they figured it was something
that the civilization had made
for some particular purpose.
>>EMERY: So how were the
communications maintained
for Earth and on the planet?
>>DOTY: Well, remember, we
had two satellites orbiting
that were launched by the STS,
and so they could communicate,
the ground forces
communicate through them.
One of the things they had
each team, 30-man team,
they had a radio system.
They had a radio system
that worked because there
was no interference on it.
It was similar to a
walkie talkie radio,
but it was more advanced.
And so they started
communicating.
They could communicate
back and forth.
And they also could use
another form of communication,
another device to communicate
with the satellite that
could relay the
messages back to Earth.
And I think there was like a
three or four second delay.
But when the communications
are radio operator-- remember,
every team, always
military teams
always have radio operators.
When the radio operator
was looking at this radio,
he noticed a stray
signal was pinging.
And he told the
commander, there's
a signal coming from
someplace around here.
And so they started figuring
out, trying to figure out,
OK, now it was not us.
Nobody else has been--
at least no humans
have been on this side.
Where's this
communication coming from?
So now they started
looking at it.
And one of the things you
can do is triangulate.
They found a location in
one of these buildings.
It was a human--
it looked like a human made
building or a creature, whatever
creatures these were that
had a base on the moon,
but they couldn't figure
out how to get in it.
But this signal was
coming from that.
So now they figured then that at
least the Polyzena was homing in
on that signal and that's
why it landed there.
>>EMERY: OK.
That makes sense.
>>DOTY: And so now
they figured, OK,
maybe this craft has
been near here before,
and whatever civilization
that created these buildings
on the dark side of the moon,
that this is were their craft.
So the team commander,
they had some equipment.
Let's dig in to see if we
can get into this building,
because maybe we'll just
find a civilization here.
>>EMERY: So how big was
this building, Rick,
and what was it made out of?
>>DOTY: The building
was made out
of some kind of substance,
a hard metal substance.
It's about hundred feet by
hundred feet, I think he said.
Square, partially embedded
into the lunar soil and a part
above ground.
But there were no
windows, doors.
So they tried their best
to try to dig in under it,
but they realized this thing
probably went down deeper.
So they decided that
wasn't feasible.
So they decided then that
the commander decided,
I think this is the
time we have to leave.
>>EMERY: What other
events can you
tell us about that
happened right after that?
>>DOTY: When they started
gathering up equipment
and remember, the other team
had to go back to the Remus
three miles away, and they were
going to leave some items there,
some receiver systems,
some kind of radio relays
or something to
that effect there.
And they did that.
And now the other
team had to go over
and do that on the other side.
Just as they were
doing this, they
noticed there was
something in the air that
was just above their head.
>>EMERY: Uh-oh.
>>DOTY: And they
realized at that point
it was a UFO, another
extraterrestrial craft.
And, oh, my God.
Now what?
We got maybe the civilization
that lives here is coming back
and now we're here.
What are we going to do?
>>EMERY: Awkward.
>>DOTY: Is there going
to be a confrontation.
Well, we-- we didn't
have-- that team
didn't have anything other than
a couple of lasers and some air
guns.
They couldn't confront another
extraterrestrial civilization.
So the consensus was, we
got to get out of here.
But they had to wait for the
30-person team to get back
to the Remus.
And while they were waiting
and while the other team
was getting inside the Polyzena,
this craft started to land.
But it wasn't going to
land where they were at.
It was going to land farther
away from them to the North,
I think they said, of that.
>>EMERY: Was this
a similar craft?
What it looked like?
>>DOTY: It was never explained.
It was another craft
that was quite big
and it had a really bright
beam shining down on the moon
as if it was either
searching for something
or detecting something, maybe
some kind of a recon system.
So they had to wait, and it
and it took them some time
for the other team to
get back to the Remus,
get inside and so forth.
And when they did, they were
now they were afraid if they
took off, what happens now?
And so the Polyzena told
the Remus to take off first.
Get out of here.
And they did, and took off.
The UFO stayed right above it,
right above this, the Polyzena.
So that probably
means that craft
knew what this Polyzena craft
was probably the same species.
They think that.
They could never
figure that out.
The Remus took off,
headed back towards Earth.
Polyzena figured, OK, now
we're going to take off
and we're going to move
away from this other craft,
and then take off
and get out of there.
Well, the Polyzena did take off.
The alien, extraterrestrial
craft remained where it was.
Didn't come after him at first.
But the Polyzena took
off in a different manner
or a different direction,
I think, he said,
then they came in.
So now what was going out in
space rather than trying--
rather than moving
towards Earth.
Now the pilot's realizing
that they're not
going where they wanted to go.
And then suddenly they
realized this other craft
was in front of them.
And now--
>>EMERY: Are they communicating?
>>DOTY: No.
The crafts might
be communicating.
>>EMERY: Right.
That's what I meant.
>>DOTY: But, yeah,
the pilots don't--
don't know that.
But the pilots--
the one pilot will
swear that other one
realized it was in trouble
and directed it towards Earth.
But others say
no, I don't think,
I think the craft figured it--
it was off course
and made it back.
But both crafts made
it back to Earth,
landed at the same location,
took them a lot longer
and they made it back safe.
And of course, at that
point, then they're
going to have to assess the
health of each one of the people
on board and so forth.
>>EMERY: How has Operation
Sapphire Selene influenced,
like, other lunar missions
and landings in the future?
>>DOTY: Well, after that mission
of the Polyzena and the Remus,
we didn't go back to the moon.
>>EMERY: Wow.
Is this the so-called case we
were not allowed to come back?
Was there any
communication there?
>>DOTY: I think there's a lot
more to this once we got back.
Once they did more an analysis
of these two crafts, which we
still have, we still fly them.
We know a lot more
about them than before.
There's rumors that J. Rod might
have helped us on one of them.
>>EMERY: Well.
>>DOTY: These are
rumors that I--
I just heard-- I don't
know anything for sure.
But I think that we learned
a lot about the dark side
of the moon.
And I think the consensus
was, we can't go back there.
>>EMERY: Right.
Was there a follow up
investigation then, Rick,
to come to some conclusions?
>>DOTY: Yes.
Remember, we left some
devices in that area.
We left two devices.
There are satellite
devices where
we could turn them on and
communicate or search that area.
And remember, we still had
two satellites circling.
And they were not
sophisticated satellites,
but they were satellites.
And what these things found,
the satellites and the sensors,
a lot of activity on the
dark side of the moon.
Now, the person is explaining
this to me was one of the pilots
and one of the technicians,
Air Force technicians
that went on this mission.
He said that what they
found were activity.
What kind of activities?
Ground movements, air
movements of air assets,
he referred to them as.
And anybody in
the military knows
air assets is different
types of flying devices.
That's what these
things detected.
And so the consensus
was until we
were in a better technologically
advanced state on Earth
where we could go back there
with appropriate defensive
mechanisms to encounter
anything, any extraterrestrials,
the leaders decided we're
not going to go back there.
>>EMERY: Is it
possible these craft
were sent by these beings
or this race on planet Earth
to actually for us
to scientifically
explore that and go to the moon?
>>DOTY: Yeah, I think that--
one of the biggest
questions I had was,
OK, they found this Polyzena
in the middle of the desert
near a mine.
These miners find it.
There's no
extraterrestrials around.
>>EMERY: Uninhabited.
>>DOTY: It's not damaged.
So we get it and bring it back.
Is it a calling card?
OK, here-- hey, Earth,
here's our craft.
All you got to do
is learn to fly it.
Come on up and meet
us up on the moon.
Yeah, that's very possible.
I think it is, although I've
never heard it from anybody in--
>>EMERY: It feels like that.
>>DOTY: --in leadership
role, but I actually think
that's probably
the case, because--
>>EMERY: Why would
they leave it?
>>DOTY: Exactly, exactly.
Why would they leave a
highly sophisticated craft
on this planet with no
extraterrestrials aboard?
They certainly couldn't,
I'll leave a manual
how to operate it
because we wouldn't
understand their language.
But I think they left it
hoping that at some point
in our history or
technological history,
we'll learn how
to fly this thing
and come visit them on the moon.
>>EMERY: And we did.
>>DOTY: And we did.
>>EMERY: Well, Rick, that
was a fascinating story.
I really appreciate
you coming on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]